# Summary

In December 2024, the board of directors of a legacy trust fund entrusted us with the responsibility to evaluate their traditional 60/40 allocation — 60% in US large cap equities and 40% in blended fixed income, 65% intermediate US treasury bonds and 35% long term corporate bonds — and to assess its ability to meet the trust’s long-term goals. The trust distributes 3% of its beginning-of-the-year balance to support its charitable missions. The board’s primary concern is to have a simple allocation that preservers purchasing power over the 30-year horizon, assuming an inflation rate of 2.5%. 

Using an economic scenario generator, we simulated a 1000 paths of possible portfolio performance over different market conditions. We evaluated multiple asset allocations across key metrics: probability of losing purchasing power, conditional expectation of percent loss in purchasing power given purchasing power, minimum and maximum real returns, average real returns, volatility, median real returns, and the 25th and 75th percentile paths. 

Although the benchmark 60/40 allocation performs well but leaves room for improvements, our analysis showed that there are better allocations that adhere to the trusts’ goals. One of our recommended allocations was 62% equities, 2.5% in money market, and 35.5% in blended fixed. This allocation decreases the probability of losing purchasing power while keep the volatility almost the same. This also helps the trust to grow faster. 

Our second recommendation was on a conservative side, investing 55% in equities, 0 in money market, and 45% in the blended fixed. This reduces probability of losing the purchasing power as well as volatility. However, the trust grows at a much slower rate. And we had a third unconventional recommendation of borrowing 30% from the money market and take the risk of paying it back with interest. This significantly reduces the probability of losing purchasing power and increases the minimum, maximum and average real returns. However, it comes at a cost of increased volatility by 0.4%. Given this allocation’s performance, we do not recommend increasing the 3% annual spending rate. Preserving long-term purchasing power remains achievable at 3%, but any increase would raise the probability of shortfall risk across economic conditions.
